---
title: "Jan. 6,  2026 | The Feast of the Epiphany"
date: 2026-01-06
youtube_id: "3fLcQEqgMao"
description: "Amen. Like some of you here tonight, I am old enough to remember a time before GPS. When I was preparing to drive to unknown places, I have vivid memories as a teenager and young adult of having to go..."
---

Amen. Like some of you here tonight, I am old enough to remember a time before GPS. When I was preparing to drive to unknown places, I have vivid memories as a teenager and young adult of having to go to mapquest.com, enter the address of my destination, print the directions, and then hopefully remember to take them with me before I left the house. If I was traveling with a friend, he or she would function as a navigator, warning me of upcoming turns or merging lanes. However, when traveling alone, I had to either do my best to memorize the directions before leaving or check the printout at red lights or when stuck in traffic. 

Looking back at this time in my life, I think it was an implicit defense for the existence of God that I reached my destinations at all, let alone in one piece. Whether by printing out a map or using our smartphones and GPS, no reasonable person, I don't think, would embark on a journey without either having clear directions or a clear plan of how to get to the end destination. The Magi we meet in tonight's gospel and whose arrival at the manger we celebrate in tonight's feast didn't really have either of these things, at least by the standards that most of us have. The Magi we hear about today simply followed a star, which led them from their far-off homes through the streets of foreign cities and finally to the newborn Jesus. 

We sometimes call, and indeed our tradition does call, the Magi the three wise men, and for the longest time, I had difficulty seeing them as such. How wise could they possibly have been if they embarked on a long and dangerous journey without a map, carrying expensive gifts through strange cities and trusting that a particular star was going to lead them to where they had to go? And yet we do rightfully call them wise because they were committed to staying the course and persevering in their journey until they found Christ, the only source of wisdom and the only destination that can satisfy all of our desires and journeys. 

The example of the Magi also gives us a model for how we are to live as followers of Christ today. In each of our lives, I think God places various stars, be they people, places, or experiences. Just as the Magi had to learn to read and study the night sky in order to find and then follow their star, we are to live thoughtful and discerning lives wherein we perceive how God is continually calling to us. Once we've determined who or what these stars are for us, we are then tasked, like the Magi, with following them or the paths they illuminate for us to their destination, which is fully becoming the persons God has created us to be. 

Like the Magi, we too carry treasure with us in the various gifts, talents, and charisms which we are called to lay at the feet of Christ so that he may use them, or perhaps better invite us to use them, in ways that build up the kingdom of God. Now, for as neat and comforting as this image is, however, anyone who has ever attempted to discern God's presence or where God was active in one's life knows that this process can be much more complicated when faced with the realities of life we all face. Nevertheless, I think the example of the Magi can offer us suggestions for how to go about this, and tonight I would like us to focus on three. 

First, let's recall that the Magi were what we would call today seekers, dreamers who were graced with an intellectual and spiritual curiosity for truth that directed their whole life. While we don't know much about them from scripture, the evangelist's use of the Greek word "magos," from which we get the word Magi, indicates that these three mysterious figures were members of a learned class of people known for their desire to know the truth and discern spiritual reality wherever they found it. The Magi then embodied the spiritual virtue of freedom, the freedom to seek after God wherever God might reveal God's self, even if this meant finding God where they least expected to find him. 

The Magi fully tapped into the human spirit's natural spiritual hunger and restlessness, the kind of restlessness which St. Augustine wrote of nearly 400 years later when he said that our hearts are restless until they rest in God. Perhaps a question for you to ask yourself tonight is: where are you restless in your own life? Where do you find yourself unsatisfied with the usual answers and safe solutions, possessed by a deep and unshakable yearning for something more, something deeper? At these moments, I suggest that God is or might be inviting you to raise your head, to look up, and look around you for the bright stars God has sent to you to guide you home. 

Secondly, the Magi were fearless. They left their homes and comfort zones and followed the star to strange and far-off lands where they eventually found Christ. There is something very reckless about courage, something which is not always the case about courage, something which goes beyond or even sometimes in spite of rational calculation. How else can you explain a first responder running into a burning building or a parent willing to sacrifice their own life to defend their child? When faced with situations calling for courage, we know the truth in our gut, in our heart, more than in our head. We know intuitively what action is called for, and we do it. 

The Magi remind us that the life of discipleship, the life of following Jesus wherever he may call us, calls for courage and fearlessness, which sometimes places what we think is our self-preservation in a secondary position. The Magi we heard about tonight found themselves face to face with a tyrannical king who ended up having a sinister ulterior motive. It probably would have been safer, and certainly would have been smarter, to be a bit more guarded about their journey and the star they were following, yet they spoke openly and plainly, convinced that the one beckoning them onward would protect them. Where is God asking you to show the courage, directness, and openness of the Magi? Where has God touched you so unmistakably that you know in your heart that it is in fact God's voice reaching out to you? 

Finally, we heard that after their encounter with Jesus, the Magi returned to their country by another road. Any true encounter with Jesus doesn't leave us unchanged. Even when I used to have difficulty thinking of the Magi as wise and how they were traveling, the fact they returned to their homes differently from how they departed proved that their dreams and intuitions were right. They met God and found themselves changed as a result. How were they changed? They realized that their journey wasn't over just because they had reached a destination. They realized that the one whom they encountered in the stable at Bethlehem was not only the truth but also the way, which if followed leads to life. 

We don't know what happened to the Magi after their departure from Bethlehem or what new road they took to get back home. They disappear almost as mysteriously as they appeared, riding off into the sunset, as it were. But the way of their departure and the transformation which accompanied it should remind us of an important spiritual truth. If ever we find ourselves discerning for God, the sure sign of his action and presence is always a transformed life and outlook, one which leads to new horizons and untold new roads of generosity and discipleship. The proof of an authentic meeting with God lies here and never in a life marked by fear, selfishness, unfreedom, or always playing it safe despite our deepest spiritual longings. 

On this great feast of the Epiphany, where we also remember that the message of Christ is intended for all peoples and nations, let us recall and give thanks for the many ways God communicates with us and with all people if we would only tap into our deepest spiritual yearnings, those yearnings most of us try to insulate ourselves from. Let us pray that the example of the three kings, traditionally named Caspar, Melchior, and Balthazar, would inspire us and all people to lives of courageous discipleship, lives which are so desperately needed in our city, country, church, and world. When faced with challenges and when our eyes are blinded by the darkness around us, may we always remember to raise our heads and follow those God-given stars around us to guide us into the way of life and peace. In doing this, we'll find ourselves transformed into stars for those around us as we journey home by paths perhaps unknown.